I think the other thing that's really
interesting so we talk tommy teller
could I talk for one hour solid it was
never about nostalgia there wasn't word
I mean all of this is forward-looking
it's like well how can we change the
video game market how can we change the
way children play video games and
Families video games and again
educational value and all these things
and again a lot of samples about the
economics it's kind of guy I am
you know how can we change the lives of
software developers and computer brokers
to make them better so they're not in
this miserable situation of being strung
out between Kickstarter and living on
ramen noodles and so on you know the
role of the creative artists in games
helped and that proved there were all
these questions that are fundamentally
forward-looking about the future and
this project I think for him in terms of
my interest in it it is not about
getting back to the golden era of 1978
when the original television cannot it's
not about we live in what was great
about videogames in the 16-bit of 32
hours it fundamentally is not about
nostalgia the other big question I asked
him this was in the middle of the
interview after we talked about veganism
he was very equal passionate about
answering was this I said to him Laura
an intellectual property like toejam and
Earl is basically kind of priceless an
intellectual partner like earthworm jim
is basically priceless right however the
amount of money that anyone can make
retro video games or independent game
development is remarkably close to zero
they're done as a labor of love than on
a break-even basis they don't make money
in the can make money not even if they
launched on switch steam you know every
possible PC based platform every
possible console platform and today
independent game developers can sell
through shots to direct download through
all the mainstream consoles as well as
pcs
therefore I have given these factors
what is the argument for earthworm jim
bringing out a new game exclusively on
the Intellivision amigo
why would anyone make any console
exclusive game it's one
question rather than doing what these
other games was done and then beyond
that why would these specific
intellectual properties why would they
be on your console and your console we
just did a one-hour interview with Tommy
Tallarico and when this interview
wrapped one ended my girlfriend said to
me that's the greatest interview you've
ever done for your channel it was almost
precisely one hour and then my computer
my Macintosh computer had a 100%
hardware software failure at a complete
crash people say max never crash and
that recording is lost forever it's
funny I actually considered having a
second computer record as a backup like
to have two computers simultaneously
record the conversation cuz I knew knew
there was more than 0% chance that this
would happen that the hardware or
software would fail and I didn't do it
because they didn't have enough plugs in
the wall I just didn't have enough
electrical oh that's the thing I had so
there moral of that story which is
always have a backup and Tommy Tallarico
DS n did not record the conversation I
mean that so I think he probably also
has some regrets about that we did of
course talk about the state of computer
programming software video games
Hardware the whole strategic approach
they have in television what they're
trying to do in the next 10 years in the
video game market but conversation began
with a long discussion about veganism
and his decision to become vegan what
motivated him to begin life and I think
he's never spoken about that on camera
before I only asked about three
questions that each of which he answered
at great length and great depth and with
great passion but he kept saying nobody
has ever asked me that question and by
the way I wasn't asking about vegans and
we open with that discussion as he
wanted to talk about I think he
appreciate the opportunity to come on
camera and talk to somebody who was a
vegan and who was shall we say
politically moderate so we talked about
the ins and outs of his life being a
beacon I think he said for 13 years so
he's actually a vegan
you know he would have been vegan before
most people knew what the word vegan was
you know I'm veganism really started to
take off in the public eye maybe 2014
before that I was a relatively unknown
and obscure thing so he had his story
with that and he asked me about my
background veganism how I said it become
vegan and then we very rapidly
transition I think he doesn't know the
extent to which my own life has been
wrapped up in videogames I said look I
think you were about half a generation
older than me because for him
videogames began with temple of apshai
and for me
video games began instead with something
like nethack you guys who watched the
channel will know a lot of the other
video games that were touched on for me
in my life I use music and images from
those video games including toejam and
Earl and what-have-you and we establish
she's just about 10 years older than me
so depends on how you define a
generation but when he first gotten
involved video games video games they
didn't even have music I said look deep
were you inspired to get vocal vide
games because temple of apshai
had no music at all or he thought the
music is terrible you know go back to
Atari 2600
you get a few beeps and Boop's at the
start of screaming it and that's about
it I also by saying to him that we
really do know his work I mean his work
on video games part of my own childhood
but there are many soundtracks he worked
on that you know it's not just they
could be part of the kind of top 10
greatest video game soundtracks of all
time I really said that the music is in
many ways the durable part of video
games is an art form it's what we can
still appreciate about yeah famous games
like toejam and Earl but also some of
the obscure projects he was a part of he
made the soundtrack to global gladiators
for the Sega Genesis which is one of the
very few cartridges I own on plastic I'm
not a collector and it's not the
defendants it's my childhood my mother
threw away all my shell davidians I
don't have any of the stuff continuously
mojo but I bought globe letters there's
one of his soundtracks you know but
whether it's something obscurely global
gladiators or some of the projects like
earthworm jim that are of enduring Fame
I want to say on the record the Sega
Genesis version of earthworm jim has
better music than the superintendent
so if you want to listen one of the main
things dummy was famous for in the past
was his contribution to video game
soundtracks
and as children you might not be aware
of the significance the soundtrack with
a lot of the games you played as a child
you or maybe just paying attention to
the gameplay or the graphics or whatever
but the significance of the soundtrack
is tremendous and as I say with most of
these games the music is now the main
thing you can appreciate it the only
thing you can appreciate as an adult I
really have no interest in running
around the glowing maze with a simulated
shotgun shooting robots or most radio a
troops don't interest me in many many
different ways but in most of these
cases you know the soundtrack really
does still have some some enduring value
and yet to talk about running around
with a shotgun
you know also one of his famous projects
was the Terminator game for the Sega CD
also known as as the mega CD so I
started with some after we talked about
veganism I gave him some sincere praise
for the legacy of his work that way in
videogames there are different things he
didn't know about me and my work but
where I was going with the conversation
eventually the last question I asked
them and there were like three questions
and each of these questions he said Wow
nobody ever asked him that that's a
great question that he had a lot to say
about it
the final question and asked him when I
was moving towards was to really talk
about educational software and language
education and pointed to that stage you
know for me playing a video game like
Dirk the originals or that no graphics
or nethack which barely has graphics you
know for me as a child that was part of
language learning in language education
even if the use of language wasn't so
deep the repetition and the use of
proper sentence structure and grammar
and so on you are really engaged with
language learning with those video games
not all video games definitely you can
be a complete illiterate and play Super
Mario Brothers you know this is not true
across all genres but there is some
educational significance to video games
in our lives whether we want to admit it
or not and then I've talked about the
struggle to try to get language
education that you
or even language adaptations of video
games for obscure languages like First
Nations languages the Native American
languages Kriya Jim play mohawk Navajo
you name it and my own passengers than
that my interest in having software
education sell foreign language
adaptations for just some more obscure
languages like the ocean and Cambodian I
think if you google around the internet
you'll even see me trying that with
Palli try to talk about video games
language education software and the
point being here language education
software doesn't always look like a
dictionary it can look a lot like a
Pokemon so I told him the story that
when I was first studying creating a jib
way at First Nations University these
are American Indian languages they are
indigenous languages native languages to
tonight's it's a Canada all of which are
in danger of going extinct quite early
in the course maybe one month in his
study of the language I made a board
game and it was a board game and it
involved also cards very very vaguely
similar to Pokemon in some ways the
actual board was more like monopoly you
moved around a board and there were
different symbols but there was also no
one of cards fighting you know this kind
of thing as part of because of what
vocabulary at the time you know and you
know this was like Pokemon but is using
the real names in Korea forest animals
like Fox Eagle that's it because this is
a lot of vocabulary had just start the
language and the professors were blown
away at this and said we'll look this is
the challenge we have you want this
language to survive or hey if you want
people to really grow up speaking a
zymogen fluent in this language a video
game or a card game or you know
something even like Pokemon that's in
Korea or Jib way then you have kids
practicing and memorizing vocabulary and
using that vocabulary and complete
sentences this is actually a really
powerful form of language education
itself and then it also motivates people
positively to use the language it also
shows people hey this language is part
of your daily life in the modern world
in a meaningful way this isn't just
something you have to study because of a
guilt trip from your grandparents like
oh you should study this language and
guys a lot of what I just said is just
as true of Chinese the difference being
Chinese has a market of billions of
people worth billions of dollars and
language like Kree origin where Cambodia
it's only thousands but it sends him on
that front when I was talking to
software engineers or programmers about
the possibility of making lemon
education software for these more
obscure languages the easiest way to do
that is to adapt an already existing
product that's great and the problem was
educational software is so dead that
it's not as if the products already out
there to be adapted right it's just not
the case you're starting from scratch so
he talked about so I gave him this
opportunity to talk about educational
software its significance for the
television for his product project
another interesting little setup i gave
him there was to challenge him and say
look you know you didn't have to name
this disconsolate e in television right
one of the things in television was
known for was educational software
math software spelling stuff that was
part of what it was designed for there
you know you could have called this the
amico master system you could have dug
out other obscure names of video game
consoles including the Magnavox Odyssey
Odyssey is a great name for a forum
system you know if you called it the
amico Odyssey that still has retro value
and a step nostalgia value for people
that is you chose something that
specifically is branded for educational
value and you know to what extent is
this part of it so he really pushes that
and again shockingly he said no no one
else in any other interview had asked
him about that but his company is
committed to making 20% of their
software educational that's a huge
commitment so a number of other really
interesting aspects that came on passing
on I mentioned look you know if you're
doing this educational software there
will be charitable money for it like not
just stuff like Kickstarter but there
are the educational foundations we
wanted to put up money for educational
software support the publication of the
educational software and even government
money you know there will be government
support for development vitiation suffer
and he immediately said that already
they are actually getting some
government support that some public
sector supported which is to me very
surprising it's a system it's a medium
system that doesn't exist yet I pointed
out that the
even if it's a minority of people care
about educational software they'd care
about it passionately right and even if
children are drawn to games that have
violence or sexually salacious imagery
children don't make the purchasing
decisions the parents do so the parents
may be powerfully motivated by the
educational software and I said even if
you fail at making 20% the software
education even if you only have 10% in
being educational that's still
infinitely more than once you get on
Nintendo switch or Playstation or Xbox
those systems really have zero
educational software which is bizarre
and remarkable and amazing that's that's
the way it's it's been for such a long
time and you can play Super Mario
Brothers or a clone of Super Mario
Brothers and by the way of any era
whether you're talking about Mario
Galaxy or Mario 64 or original Mario
Brothers
you can play that type of game on any
hardware today whether it's a mobile
phone or a laptop computer or any of the
videogame systems so that's never going
to be the unique selling point for your
system it's never going to be what
motivates people to be passionate about
committed to your Hardware something get
on any hardware anywhere but if you have
some of this that's really unique to
your system that people will buy the
system they'll commit to it and then
they'll probably buy a Mario type game
anyway let's say okay I'm buying the
system for educational software and then
Alice went do this so that sparked a
long passionate discussion from Kevin
yeah I made some of these comments while
I was speaking but I mean he you know he
was really eager to talk about this side
of the business and his his vision for
the future and he reflected on his whole
past career and how educational software
had disappeared from console gaming had
disappeared from mobile gaming mobile
here meaning like game boy or Nintendo
2d s 3ds the mobile systems and that
sense dummy mobile phones and how
finally even disappeared from PC gaming
that there had been this amazing
collapse in educational software
collapse in software made for children I
mentioned a lot of guys don't know this
there's an obscure sega system Sega
actually split off a separate system for
children's children's entertainment in
the genesis era there
separate division doing it and he knew
the lists of all these companies that
used to commit a serious amount of the
resources to either really for small
children appropriate software or
explicitly educational software or both
and that that was gone so this is one of
those fundamental paradoxes lurking in
the background this conversation is that
the period of the greatest profitability
for video games was right at the start
when the audience was the smallest as an
economic fact the most profitable video
game of all time was space invaders so
since then everything has been less and
less profitable although the size of the
market has increased and increased and
so today the number of people in the
market for video games is huge it's it's
basically the whole world that has
access to electricity you know the size
of the market is in the millions and yet
the diversity of software has narrowed
so something he said he said if you walk
into a big-name video game store today
and say well what educational games do
you have they will say nothing and I
think that is true we've walked into a
be doing service I think it is actually
zero
the only exception I can think of or a
couple of language education games for
an it not even Nintendo 3ds for the
Nintendo DS it had a couple of
educational titles they might have on
the shelf somewhere but there are almost
no exceptions and he said back in 1995
if you walked into a video game store
they had this this this and this I mean
he knows that history better the night
if he knew what was going on at
videogames in the 1990s and this
collapse so the size of the market has
expanded but the diversity of what's on
offer has narrowed and it definitely
seems like that sometimes with all the
focus ok let's not get into stereotyping
what what video games are available and
and what aren't but that's that's
alarmingly clear in terms of Education
set aside about education software
general Chilean software in general and
for me the issue of language education
sometimes being an implicit part of the
game you know zorg wasn't meant to be
educational nethack wasn't
the games I played as a kid they weren't
meant to be but they were educational
for me and that pointed out that a game
like animal processing if it's in
Chinese and you're playing Chinese it
can't have some educational value for
you when a Chinese very easily these
things could be adapted or other types
of games could make games games that are
first and foremost games but implicitly
functionally actually they really are
educational for children which all that
are building up their their ability to
use their first language or learning a
second language or what-have-you and
then beyond that there's the question of
really explicitly educational software
which I mentioned as many times just
lately the stuff that's available even
on mobile phones
eating's will run more complete or it's
a remarkably neglected mhmmm sector of
the market okay
so the other big question I asked and
this is in the middle with each of you
after we talked about veganism he was
very passionate about answering was this
I said to him look an intellectual
property like toejam & arrow is
basically kind of priceless no I mean
2020 and intellectual property like what
was my debate example here your member
papes or my girlfriend earthworm jim
thank you
intellectual property from Jim is
basically priceless right however the
amount of money that anyone can make
retro video games or independent game
development is remarkably close to zero
several award-winning and famous games
were developed on a completely non
profit basis I gave the example of
dustforce
if you google it dust horses a game
where they published the economics of
what happened even though they had like
Kickstarter money or another form of
donation even though they won awards
that gave them bursaries gave them free
money to develop and finish the game
even though they had all this kind of
angel investment if they had paid their
team normal salaries that would have
been bankrupt it would not have been
breaking down it was basically done as a
charity project but everyone involved
that was one of the most successful
games of its year and then distributed
on every platform it possibly could and
so on right you look at something like
Wonder Boy
Dragons trap a retro beam project a lot
of these things the they're done is a
labor of love than on a break-even basis
they don't make money in the can make
money not even if they launch on switch
steam you know every possible PC based
platform every possible console platform
and today independent game developers
can sell through a shot to direct
download through all the mainstream
consoles as well as PC s therefore given
these factors what is the argument for
earthworm jim bringing at a new game
exclusively on the Intellivision amiga
dough why would the next toe jam and
earl game be exclusively on the
Intellivision amico and of course
there's a broader question there why
would anyone take the gamble why would
anyone make why would anyone make any
console exclusive game it's one question
rather than doing what these other games
has done and then beyond that why would
these specific intellectual properties
why would they be on your console and
your console only and he had a very good
answer to that question I think the
answer he gave and again he was
delighted to be asked the question
nobody ever asked this question that's a
great question sorry babe he he was
delighted to have the question and he
gave an answer that I think would have
thrilled any board roomful of investors
or any group of young people who
themselves dreamed about having a career
in video game development and the answer
involved a lot of money a lot of talent
and a lot of support for the developers
themselves he spoke at great length
about the misery involved with being an
independent game developer he spoke
about how awful it was to have to
survive a Kickstarter money and to
produce games exactly the way dustforce
was created the way small companies
operate these independent game
developers operate and he said
fundamentally the reason why people are
going to commit to what he's doing in
television is because what they're doing
is the exact opposite he said these
people actually get paid they get paid
up front they get paid in advance
to make a game so this is already this
is already a significant difference
right
the idea you're getting paid today for
an earthworm jim game that might exist
one or two years from now whatever the
talent development alright now again if
you're thinking as an investor thinking
about buying stock in this company that
also changes the risk and reward balance
considerably right as opposed to a
company like Steam or the Nintendo eShop
just sitting there and saying hey will
passively develop will passively
distribute your your product and will
keep maybe 30% I know by the way whether
you're talking about the Android Market
for four games the selling of software
for Android phones or the Apple shop
whatever we call it the Apple II shop if
you're selling games there you're losing
at least 30% of the value of your game
at least 30% of the ticket price is
going to the owner of the shop the
distributing website there is no shop
you know so 30% of it is going to Apple
Corporation or or more 30% or more is
going to steam or Android the Google
owned shop that's the strip name so the
so you know if you're charging only $10
for a game and maybe $3 or $4 is going
to an intermediate shop with that kind
that's a really awful business prospect
and again those people are surviving off
of donations on patreon or donations
their Kickstarter and then they're they
may not be making any money at all
afterwards after it's disturbed in the
shop he bemoaned how lawful was for
those people to develop those games and
then they have no marketing department
and no promotion the game all your hard
work can just disappear into a list of
thousands and thousands of games that
are available on any of these platforms
again this would have files of the
iPhone shop but the Nintendo eShop or
steam or whatever it disappears into the
infinity of the internet and it may
never be really appreciated or which
region on its again and he is making the
pitch that what they are doing is very
fundamentally different both in terms of
the economics that the developers are
going to get that money up front
and in terms of the talent that they
have to back it up the talent they have
of people who are on the payroll of in
television who will do crucial piece of
the process work so what I didn't say at
that point this is one this was a one
hour long conversation but it was
action-packed so I didn't have a moment
to say everything I thought what an
interesting contrast that was to the
failure of the Sega Saturn so in my
distant history I was a videogames
journalist I was paid believing her I
wasn't wasn't a volunteer I'm like these
days I got a lot of free stuff from
these companies including Sega I was
taking a Sega headquarters and given
free free heart burns up or if I say
again stuff you know it was a very
different time in video games and games
journalism rarely discuss chapter of my
life but you know one of the biggest
misconceptions about why the Sega Saturn
fails that people just said it was hard
to program for nothing is objectively
hard to program for right the problem
was that Sega didn't share the code the
problem was that Sega didn't help people
so Sega put all this work into building
up so hold libraries software libraries
just means code code that is done in
assembly which is the hardest kind of
programming right and keep in mind
that'll include things like people they
talk about physics and lighting and
comics that it's gonna involve some of
the most rudimentary elements of game
programming like how to draw a line on
the screen how to draw two polygons and
have them come to a point like some of
the real rudiments those are in
so-called libraries right programmers
wanting to create something for the Sega
Saturn we're looking at this huge huge
burden of work to do in working from
assembly code to to make the rudiments
of a game before they can even get on to
the creative self-expression so it's not
the case that the Sega Saturn was harder
to program for and other systems the
problem was the assistance and the
software provided to you as an
independent game developer by Sega
Corporation the stuff they wanted to
keep to themselves like their attitude
at that time we've got we put all this
work into making Sonic R the sonic
racing game we're
just gonna give that to other people so
they can then take that and make their
own game and that was that was a
suicidal business decision from Sega
destroyed Sega Saturn and the only other
companies that could develop good
software for the Saturn were huge
companies like Capcom Capcom made great
software for the Saturn but almost
nobody else could could cope with it the
burden of coding in assembly so he so
what Tommy Tallarico is saying is that a
television is not just paying money up
front but they have this amazing rogues
gallery of some of the most experienced
to telling the people in the business
who are just going to provide code but
they are really going to provide the
crucial consulting and enabling role to
these independent programmers and he did
give a few examples in passing that are
that are telling you know a lot of the
time if you're experienced game game
creator or programmer what-have-you
you still won't have experience with
this specific controller with the
specific hardware with how do you know
how to get things to sync up quite right
because you're used to programming maybe
PC software or maybe for some other
console or something and again it's a
huge headache well do you want to deal
with working from assembly code from the
ground up to figure out how to get all
the parts to work together this right
and he's saying no we already have
in-house the best people and he was
mentioning people who have a 40-year
record of doing amazing work in video
game development on a whole bunch of
famous platforms and systems and whole
bunch of famous games again I'm not
gonna try to reproduce her memory but he
named off specific people on specific
games and specific hardware platforms
that they all had a decade of experience
with each or more and he said these are
the people are going to be able to
answer an email and they're even the
people are going to be able to take your
code and optimize it to work well with
this hardware with this controller and
so on so that's massively empowering for
a massively enabling for the people
making this software
now if you even went as far as to say
this is very generous that he was
willing to do the music for these
parties you could have Tommy Tallarico
this famous video even was doing the
music your work so you don't have to
worry about that means
and he mentioned the people that art
direction and animation seeing that they
would provide her and he then mentioned
the people in marketing just interesting
he had people who were crucial to
success of the Nintendo Wii in the
United States of America is that we have
people to do marketing and of course the
artwork and so on well into that and
we're willing to do that to promote your
product so he's saying in television
doesn't just pay you but they really
take on the Congress public right um I
think the other interesting thing that
both motivated him throughout this
interview and motivates him in this
project and something he and I have in
common is actually a really deep
criticism of what's wrong with video
games maybe you could say what's wrong
with the culture of video game playing
in video invitation to this day so if he
and I have a number of really odd things
in common in terms of veganism in terms
of ethics he talked a lot about his
veganism be motivated by compassion and
ethics and so on rather than ecology or
weight loss or health it was very rich
in their perspective we have things in
common politically I would say and you
know obviously his whole life has been
dominated by and devoted to video games
but he is capable of seeing the
fundamental evil of having a family
sitting in a room where the father is
off in one corner staring at his mobile
phone the daughter as may be staring at
her laptop you know the son may be
playing video games on one or another
isolated console let's say the Nintendo
switch mini or whatever you know where
digital devices are dividing rather than
uniting people they're not bringing
people together keeping them apart and I
gave him a phrase I said yes people are
isolated together as never before you're
sitting together BR completely isolated
by technology so he is a critic of this
Ivan Turing really briefly back when I
was a video game critic back when I was
getting paid to write about video games
or very soon thereafter maybe a year
after I remember a friend of the family
asking me about buying the Gameboy for
her son
think of the time it was Game Boy Color
maybe and I said to her don't do it I
said buy him a Sega Saturn instead and
she said oh what she was really
surprised she thought that the gameboy
would kind of be less harmful because
like the graphics are less impressive or
whatever like it's like some outlet
because it's less like it has less
computing power so therefore it's gonna
be less addictive and I said no if he's
sitting on the floor with a real console
like the Sega Saturn or natal 64
whatever right you're in the same room
with him his friends don't think he can
sit on the floor with his friends
playing it you know what he's playing
you talk to him about what he's playing
when I'm living as my daughter I'm
literally reading her the text on-screen
it's on I've played Animal Crossing with
my daughter and we'll play that she was
barely capable of reading to what extent
that was laziness is another question
but you know she's she'd been talking to
me about okay how does this work and you
know game I came across you explaining
the economics of it no no you know you
dig up the beats now when you sell them
later or the prices on the economics of
farming and this video game but you're
reading and interpreting there can be an
educational and social thing that you
know as Tommy would say it brings people
together
so I will bringing families together is
this big hypothesis here rather than
isolating people bring the part but it's
interesting to know even back then maybe
that was 1995 maybe was 1997 you know
you're talking about the difference
between the gameboy the isolating
potential of a portable device which now
includes the mobile phone much more
powerful than a Game Boy ever was as
opposed to sitting down with the console
he is really he's really committed now
on to challenging the evils of few games
even though he's doing it from his
perspective or the positive creation of
a new video gaming platform so I mean my
own ambivalence about this is is drawn
out in many different ways I'm a parent
who is willing to play video games with
my daughter I wanted to buy video games
for my daughter and sit there with her
but I'm of course incredibly
apprehensive but possibility my daughter
becoming a video game addict and I
really actively advocate on the Internet
for other adults like myself not to
waste their life not to lose precious
your clears their life playing video
games I don't think this is support
weight and both my girlfriend and I you
know we have regrets about how many
hours were lost at our youth to play
video games
you know I've told her before we have we
own a Nintendo Wii which is getting for
my daughter now we'll see if my daughter
is willing to put up with it maybe
up I don't want to play I don't wanna
play games of this low polygon count or
something but we still own a Nintendo
Wii and I was shocked when we popped in
the I was gonna say the cartridge was a
disc we popped in the disc for Super
Mario Galaxy my girlfriend had a hundred
percent for every level she'd come back
in her college days she had gotten a
hundred percent for every level of Super
Mario Galaxy it's like guess what kid
you could have been doing something else
while you were in college there was
something easier that what you were a
university student that getting under
for that so I do think it's something as
a profoundly corrupting a negative
effect on people's lives but at the same
time as you can hear me say again again
I recognize the intellectual partly I
intellectuals good reviews this is the
Intellivision I recognize the
educational potential and it could be a
positive part of people's lives
intellectually it's a lot easier to have
a video game that has positive
intellectual content for a four-year-old
a five-year-old sexual several than it
is that video game that would have
positive intellectual content for
someone like me in their 40s but I think
we can recognize in the last 20 years
nobody has even been been trying to do
that nobody's been taking on that that
challenge so it is really interesting
that a garlic Tommy Tallarico
it is partly out of a critique of
everything that's wrong with videogames
today what's wrong with you know again
you could have two brothers but they're
sitting at opposite ends of the living
room playing separate in Nintendo switch
minis
are playing separate 3ds or something um
it's interesting you know the approach
he sees as he puts it to bringing
families together and how he is going to
use you know again the talent pool the
people he's brought together from
decades of knowing these people in the
industry and ultimately having the money
investment to pay them a salary that
he's gonna bring
you know in terms of software and
hardware creation to try to challenge
some of the fundamental assumptions of
the video game industry my optimism for
this is that I think even if it fails
it's still pretty positive
here comes you know when I was a child
the rate of technological development
was so fast that that really propelled
video games forward as an industry even
if what everyone was producing
intellectually or creatively was crap
okay I can remember when the
turbografx-16 came out to people like me
it was the PC engine that was the first
system to have 16-bit graphics so the
leap from 8-bit 16-bit didn't matter
what garbage she put on the console and
not just because it was a child but
because oh wow well before we saw Batman
in four colors punching the Joker now
here he is in you know 16-bit graphics
punching the joke I had the I had the
black-and-white Batman game for Game Boy
by the way I think that was those more
or less a launch Soviet the graphics are
unbelievably primitive right like oh wow
now I can see Batman's cape flutter in
the breeze was money that has become
banal and meaningless the progress in
graphics even I mean even when you're
comparing Nintendo Wii to Nintendo
switch Mario has more hair you know
because air moves in the breeze or
something is you know that that issue of
the rate of graphical progress and the
rate of progress and music or sound
quality that has become meaningless and
there's now I think a much more
meaningful challenge in terms of
creative authorship for several creation
and this question that Tommy Tallarico
is at least asking what is the role of
video games in our lives some of us are
making that decision as parents some of
us are making the decision as language
educators right some of us are making
that decision maybe as language
researchers or that right and yeah some
of us are making the decision has
children begging their parents to buy
them something
and some of us are making that decision
as fully grown men who are inexplicably
addicted to a childish form that's the
market I have the least sympathy for it
at Amin and we will see we will see to
what extent that market embraces or
rejects the Intellivision amico as a
project I think the other thing that's
really interesting so we talked tommy
teller could I talk for one hour solid
it was never about nostalgia there
wasn't one word I mean all of this is
forward-looking it's like well how can
we change the video game market how can
we change the way children play video
games and families video games and again
educational value and all these things
and again a lot of ulsan with the
economics it's kind of guy I am
you know how can we change the lives of
software developers and computer brokers
to make them better so they're not in
this miserable situation of being strung
out between Kickstarter and living on
ramen noodles and so on you know the
role of the creative artists in games
helped and that proved there were all
these questions that are fundamentally
forward-looking about the future and
this project I think for him in terms of
my interest in it it is not about
getting back to the golden era of 1978
when the original television cannot it's
not about we live in what was great
about video games in the 16-bit of 32
hours it fundamentally is not about
nostalgia and in that sense even if it
fails I think it really could be
something right an experiment by
definition is something you undertake
with the outcome being unknown and it's
really rare to see someone put millions
of dollars into an experiment we can sit
back and say okay this is something new
and one way or another we're gonna see
where this is going
[Music]